You may have seen leave-one-out cross-validation before.
Leave-one-subject-out cross-validation is similar.
You might remember that in our dataset,
we have 611 data points,
but from only eight subjects.
This is somewhat common in biomedical signal processing
because enrolling subjects and collecting data from them is expensive.
So when we do have a subject,
we typically collect a lot of data from them and
end up with multiple data points per subject.
Because there might be a lot of similarity in how
an individual performs a specific activity,
leaving some of that person's data in the training set,
and then testing on it might lead us to believe
that our model generalizes better than it actually
would have if it had encountered
a brand new person who had never seen in the training set.
For this reason, when we do leave-one-out-subject-out cross-validation,
our test set contains only data from one subject,
and that person's data does not exist in the training set.
This is also why we keep track of which
subject each data point belong to in the subjects array.
As with everything else, scikit-learn has
a function for leave-one-subject-out cross-validation.
We're going to keep track of our confusion matrix in this three-by-three NumPy matrix.
To do cross-validation, we first split up our dataset into a training set and a test set,
and we do this for each cross validation fold.
Then we will train our classifier on the training set,
and run the classifier on our test set.
Then we'll compute the confusion matrix for this specific fold,
and then aggregate all the confusion matrices from all the folds together.
Now, let's plot our confusion matrix.
This is the confusion matrix for our classifier.
Another way to plot the confusion matrix is to normalize it across rows, like this.
So that the sum of each row equals one.
This might be somewhat more interpretable.
We can see that our classifier misclassifies this biking class a lot.
Almost 42 percent of the time,
we misclassify cycling as walk.
We do pretty well with run.
We don't misclassify runs as other things and we don't predict cycling as running at all,
and we rarely predict walking as cycling.
So typically in machine learning problems,
it's nice to have a single matrix to optimize
instead of this three-by-three matrix that we have.
So we'll choose a metric called classification accuracy.
This is just the percent of the time that we make a correct classification.
There are other matrix that we can use to evaluate
the classifier performance and depending on our dataset,
using just one metric might be misleading.
Check out the further resources section to learn
more about matrix for evaluating classification.
We can compute the classification accuracy from the confusion matrix as follows.
It's just the sum of the diagonal elements,
the correct classifications, divided by all the classifications made.
So our classifier's classification accuracy is 77 percent.
Great. We've built an activity classifier.
It's performance, it's not terrible,
but we can definitely do better.
Let's see how in the next lesson.